.Dd June 2002
.Dt GPSMAP 1
.Os "Kismet"
.Sh NAME
.Nm gpsmap
.Nd Wireless sniffing and monitoring
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Ar gpsmap
.Op Fl tbrwHpdgkiMIVh
.Op Fl c Ar map-x,y,scale
.Op Fl S Ar map-scale
.Op Fl u Ar map-size-x,y
.Op Fl m Ar user-map-image
.Op Fl s Ar interpolated-size
.Op Fl C Ar interpolated-color
.Op Fl D Ar dot-size
.Op Fl L Ar point-label-type
.Op Fl O Ar opacity
.Op Fl T Ar num-threads
.Op Fl o Ar output-png
.Op Fl f Ar confile-file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm gpsmap
reads GPS and Network XML datafiles and plots networks on downloaded maps or
user-supplied images (such as sattellite photos).
.Sh USAGE
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl c
Force an alternate map center and scale
.It Fl S
Force an alternate map scale (but use gpsmap-determined center)
.It Fl u
Custom map size (default 1280x1024)
.It Fl m
Use a custom map instead of downloading one from mapblast (useful for sattelite
imagery)
.It Fl t
Don't draw the movement track
.It Fl b
Draw bounding rectangles of extreme network data points
.It Fl r
Don't draw estimated network ranges
.It Fl w
Color networks based on WEP and factory config instead of rotating random colors.
.It Fl H
Draw convex hulls for each network
.It Fl p
Draw scatter plot of each sampled packet
.It Fl i
Draw interpolated power ranges
.It Fl s
Resolution to process interpolation at.
.It Fl C
Use alternate color map to draw interpolated power data.  Map 1 is a gradient through
RGB colors.  Map 2 is a weather-radar style color map.
.It Fl d
Draw a dot at the estimated center of each network.
.It Fl D
Draw the center dot (or scatter plot dot) at radius 'size'
.It Fl L
Comma-seperated list of text to label each center (bssid, ssid)
.It Fl O
Opacity to draw range and interpolation at
.It Fl g
Don't convert the underlying image to greyscale
.It Fl k
Keep the downloaded image
.It Fl T
Spawn 'num' threads to process interpolation.
.It Fl M
Fetch metric-titled map
.It Fl F
Comma-seperated list of MAC addresses to ignore (also read from the global Kismet config.)
.It Fl I
Inverted filtering (draw ONLY MAC's in the filter list)
.It Fl f
Use an alternate config file
.It Fl v
Be verbose
.It Fl o
Name of output .png file
.It Fl V
GPSMap version
.It Fl h
Help
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
kismet(1)
