.Dd April 2004
.Dt KISMET 1
.Os "Kismet"
.Sh NAME
.Nm kismet
.Nd Wireless sniffing and monitoring
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Ar kismet
.Op server-options
.Op Fl -
.Op client-options
.Pp
.Ar kismet_server
.Op Fl nqs
.Op Fl t Ar title
.Op Fl f Ar config-file
.Op Fl c Ar capture-source
.Op Fl C Ar enable-capture-sources
.Op Fl l Ar log-types
.Op Fl d Ar dump-type
.Op Fl m Ar max-packets-per-file
.Op Fl g Ar gpshost:port
.Op Fl p Ar listen-port
.Op Fl a Ar allowed-hosts
.Op Fl N Ar server-name
.Pp
.Ar kismet_client
.Op Fl qr
.Op Fl f Ar config-file
.Op Fl s Ar serverhost:port
.Op Fl g Ar gui-type
.Op Fl c Ar display-columns
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Kismet
is an 802.11 layer2 wireless network detector, sniffer, and
intrusion detection system.  Kismet will work with any wireless card which
supports raw monitoring (rfmon) mode, and can sniff 802.11b, 802.11a, and
802.11g traffic.

Kismet identifies networks by passively collecting packets and detecting
standard named networks, detecting (and given time, decloaking) hidden
networks, and inferring the presence of nonbeaconing networks via data
traffic.
.br
.Nm kismet
supports logging to the wtapfile packet format (readable by tcpdump and
ethereal) and saves detected network informat as plaintext, CSV, and XML.
.Nm kismet
is capable of using any GPS supported by
.Nm gpsd
and logs and plots network data.
.Pp
.Nm kismet
is divided into three basic programs,
.Nm kismet_server
.Nm kismet_client
and
.Nm gpsmap
.Sh USAGE
.Nm kismet
handles automatically starting kismet_server and kismet_client.
.br
.Nm kismet
is installed as suid-root by default.  It will drop privs to the user
specified in 
.Nm kismet.conf
immediately after binding and configuring the capture source.

.Sh KISMET_SERVER
.Nm kismet_server
captures, dissects, and logs packets and GPS data.  It is capable of running in
`headless' mode with no display.  Multiple clients (on multiple computers) can
be connected to a single server.
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl I
Set the initial channel for a channel source (source:channel)
.It Fl x
Forcibly enable the channel hopper
.It Fl X
Forcibly disable the channel hopper
.It Fl t
Set the title used for the %t field of the logfile template (Default: Kismet)
.It Fl n
Disable all logging
.It Fl f
Use an alternate config file
.It Fl c
Override capture source lines (type,interface,name).  Refer to kismet.conf(5) for more information. Multiple capture source options can be specified for multiple sources.  All sources provided here are automatically enabled unless an enable list is also supplied.
.It Fl C
Comma-separated list to override what capture sources are enabled.
.It Fl l
Override logging types, comma separated (dump, cisco, weak, csv, xml, gps)
.It Fl m
Override maximum packets logged per file
.It Fl q
Override sound option and run in quiet mode
.It Fl g
Override GPS host:port
.It Fl p
Override port to listen on for clients
.It Fl a
Override list of client IPs or network/mask blocks (comma separated) allowed to connect
.It Fl s
Run in silent mode (no console status information)
.It Fl N
Override server name for this instance of Kismet
.It Fl v
Print version
.It Fl h
Help
.El
.Sh KISMET_CLIENT
.Nm kismet_client
is a ncurses and panels interface which connects to the server and displays detected 
networks, statistics, network details, etc.
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl f
Use an alternate config file
.It Fl u
Use an alternate UI config file
.It Fl q
Override sound option and run in quiet mode
.It Fl s
Override server host:port
.It Fl r
Attempt to automatically restablish the connection if the server terminates
.It Fl g
Override UI type (curses, panel)
.It Fl c
Override list of columns to display (comma seperated)
.It Fl v
Print version
.It Fl h
Help
.El
.Sh GPSMAP
.Nm gpsmap
reads GPS and Network XML datafiles and plots networks on downloaded maps or
user-supplied images (such as satellite photos).
.Sh SEE ALSO
kismet_drone(1), gpsmap(1), kismet.conf(5), kismet_ui.conf(5), kismet_drone.conf(5)
