.Dd June 2002
.Dt KISMET 1
.Os "Kismet"
.Sh NAME
.Nm kismet
.Nd Wireless sniffing and monitoring
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Ar kismet
.Op server-options
.Op Fl -
.Op client-options
.Pp
.Ar kismet_server
.Op Fl nqs
.Op Fl t Ar title
.Op Fl f Ar config-file
.Op Fl c Ar capture-type
.Op Fl i Ar capture-interface
.Op Fl l Ar log-types
.Op Fl d Ar dump-type
.Op Fl m Ar max-packets-per-file
.Op Fl g Ar gpshost:port
.Op Fl p Ar listen-port
.Op Fl a Ar allowed-hosts
.Pp
.Ar kismet_client
.Op Fl qr
.Op Fl f Ar config-file
.Op Fl s Ar serverhost:port
.Op Fl g Ar gui-type
.Op Fl c Ar display-columns
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm kismet
is an 802.11b wireless network sniffer.  It is capable of sniffing using 
almost any wireless card supported by Linux, including cards based on the
Prism/2 chipset with the wlan-ng driver (Compaq, Linksys, D-Link, and more),
cards based on the Lucent chipset (Orinoco) with the patched orinoco 
driver, cards using the Aironet chipset (Cisco) supported by the kernel
Aironet drivers, and limited support for cards that do not support RF Monitoring.
.br
.Nm kismet
supports logging to the wtapfile packet format (readable by tcpdump and
ethereal) and saves detected network informat as plaintext, XSV, and XML.
.Nm kismet
is capable of using any GPS supported by
.Nm gpsd
and logs and plots network data.
.Pp
.Nm kismet
is divided into three basic programs,
.Nm kismet_server
.Nm kismet_curses
and
.Nm gpsmap
.Sh USAGE
.Nm kismet
handles automatically starting kismet_server and kismet_curses.
.br
IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT YOU PLACE YOUR CARD IN RFMON MODE BEFORE STARTING 
KISMET OR YOU WILL NOT SEE ANY TRAFFIC.  Your card can be placed into 
monitor mode by configuring
.Nm kismet
for your card and running 
.Nm kismet_monitor

.Sh KISMET_SERVER
.Nm kismet_server
captures, dissects, and logs packets and GPS data.  It is capable of running in
`headless' mode with no display.  Multiple clients (on multiple computers) can
be connected to a single server.
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl t
Set the title used for the %t field of the logfile template (Default: Kimset)
.It Fl n
Disable all logging
.It Fl f
Use an alternate config file
.It Fl c
Override capture type (pcap, prism2, generic, wtapfile)
.It Fl i
Override capture interface
.It Fl l
Override logging types, comma seperated (dump, cisco, weak, csv, xml, gps)
.It Fl m
Override maximum packets logged per file
.It Fl q
Override sound option and run in quiet mode
.It Fl g
Override GPS host:port
.It Fl p
Override port to listen on for clients
.It Fl a
Override list of client IPs (comma seperated) allowed to connect
.It Fl s
Run in silent mode (no console status information)
.It Fl v
Print version
.It Fl h
Help
.El
.Sh KISMET_CURSES
.Nm kismet_curses
is a ncurses and panels interface which connects to the server and displays detected 
networks, statistics, network details, etc.
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl f
Use an alternate config file
.It Fl u
Use an alternate UI config file
.It Fl q
Override sound option and run in quiet mode
.It Fl s
Override server host:port
.It Fl r
Attempt to automatically restablish the connection if the server terminates
.It Fl g
Override UI type (curses, panel)
.It Fl c
Override list of columns to display (comma seperated)
.It Fl v
Print version
.It Fl h
Help
.El
.Sh GPSMAP
.Nm gpsmap
reads GPS and Network XML datafiles and plots networks on downloaded maps or
user-supplied images (such as sattellite photos).
.Sh SEE ALSO
kismet_monitor(1), kismet.conf(5), kismet_ui.conf(5), gpsmap(1)
