.Dd July 2002
.Dt KISMET_HOPPER 1
.Os "Kismet"
.Sh NAME
.Nm kismet_hopper
.Nd Wireless sniffing and monitoring
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Ar kismet_hopper
.Op Fl hndp
.Op Fl f Ar file
.Op Fl c Ar capture-source
.Op Fl C Ar enable-capture-sources
.Op Fl s Ar hopsequence
.Op Fl S Ar hosequence-80211a
.Op Fl v Ar velocity
.Sh DESCRIPTION
kismet_hopper is a component of kismet
which changes the channel a wireless card is tuned to several times a second to
enable monitoring across all of the channels in 802.11b and 802.11a.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl f
Use an alternate config file
.It Fl c
Override capture source lines (type,interface,name).  Refer to kismet.conf(5) for more information. Multiple capture source options can be specified for multiple sources.  All sources provided here are automatically enabled unless an enable list is also supplied.
.It Fl C
Comma-separated list to override what capture sources are enabled.
.It Fl d
Divide the channel spectrum among multiple cards.  When mixing 802.11b and 802.11a cards,
multiple 802.11b cards will share that channel list and multiple 802.11a cards will
share the 802.11a portions of the list.
.It Fl n
Use international channels (1-14) instead of US channels (1-12)
.It Fl s
Use a custom hop sequence instead of the default.  When making a hop sequence, 
remember that ajacent channels overlap.
.It Fl S
Use a custom 802.11a hop sequence instead of the default.
.It Fl v
Use a custom hop velocity (channels per second).  Many cards exhibit problems under
high hop velocities.
.It Fl p
Show the hopping progress
.It Fl h
Help
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
kismet.conf(5), kismet_ui.conf(5), gpsmap(1), kismet(1), kismet_monitor(1)
